THE EGYPTIAN GAZETTE, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 29, 1905.

LOCAL AND GENERAL

The Brindisi Mail.
The mail will close at the G. P. O., Alex-
andria, at 3.10 p.m. on Sunday.

Death from Cold.
The weather in Cairo remains unusually
severe. A ghaffir dropped dead at his post
on Tuesday night from heart failure caused by
cold.

Khedivial Sporting Club.
Owners are reminded that entries for the
Grand National Steeplechase (value £E 100)
and the International Handicap (value £B 100),
to be run at the Second Winter Meeting close
on January 1.

Collision at Assouan.
A small steamboat was a few days ago
crossing the Nile near Elephantine Island,
Assouan, with a number of tourists on board,
when she came into collision with a boat,
belonging to a hotel company, and sank. The
passengers, who were 11 in number, were
saved.

Egyptian Institute.
The election of officers to the Egyptian
Institute for 1906 has taken place. Fakhry
Pasha remains president ; the vice-presidents
are Ahbate Pasha and Yacoub Pasha Artin. M.
Barois is treasurer and librarian. Walter Innes
Bey assistant seretary, and the committee for
publications comprises Piot Bey and MM. Bay
and Fourtan.

Review of Egyptian Troops.
A review of Egyptian troops will take place
at Abbassieh at 3 p. m. on January 8, the
anniversary of H. H the Khedive’s accession.
All who desire admittance to the reserved
enclosures should address themselves to the
A. A. G. War Office, stating whether they are
residents or visitors.

Native Court.
The trial of the Greek cheese hawker, who
fatally, stabbed a native carpenter in the Labbane
quarter of Alexandria a few weeks ago, took
place at the Native Court of Alexandria, the
man being an Ottoman subject. The accused,
who was defended by Ali Bey Assem, was sen-
tenced to two years' imprisonment.

The Meteorological Service.
The meteorological observations over Egypt
and the Sudan have now been made at nearly
all stations for four or more years, and the
information obtained makes it possible to
undertake more thoroughly the study of the
factors which determine the Nile Flood, in
co-operation with the Meteorological Services
of surrounding countries. In 1906 it is proposed
to devote more time to this question, in order
to see what information from other areas can
be most usefully employed in estimating the
probable strength of the rains in Abyssinia.

Garrison Directory.
We have received a copy of the December
issue of the Garrison Directory, published by
the authority of the G. O. C. in Egypt, which
is bulkier than its predecessors and contains
a mass of information useful to residents in
Egypt. The January edition will be ready for
sale about the 15th prox. Should any errors or
omissions be observed in the present edition it
is requested that these be at once brought to
the notice of the “Clerk-in-charge, The
Garrison Directory, British Head Quarters,
Cairo,” not later than the 31st inst.

African World Annual.
We have received the "African World”
Christmas Annual, a bulky production of about
300 folio pages packed full of interesting
information regarding every part of Africa,
from the Cape to Cairo. Though the contents
are mainly devoted to South African mining,
a section which is of the utmost value to those
interested in these ventures, space is found
for a whole series of ably written and specially
contributed articles, dealing with almost every
phase of African activity—whether it be on
mining, or on sport, politics, and travel. The
literary value of the publication is very high
and it is most profusely illustrated with photo-
graphs and sketches. The editors and compilers,
Messrs. Leo Weinthal, Hartley Knight, and
Moses Roberts, are to be congratulated on a
marvellously fine production. It costs 2s, and
should be in the hands of all those interested
in any part of this continent.

MOERIS HOTEL,
On Lake Moeril
In connection with the Karoon Hotel
Fayoum.
For particulars apply Mr. Tasco, Fayoum.

Isherwood’s Cairo Cigarettes.
The reputation which these Cigarettes have
gained in the past stands unrivalled to-day,
because it is well-known that constant care
and attention is devoted to supplying really
first-class Cigarettes only.
Between the British Consulate end Turf Club.

EDEN PALACE HOTEL
Cairo.
NOTED FOR ITS EXCELLENT CUISINE.

Anglo-American Nile Steamers
Hotel Company
River Tranport of Goods between Alexandria and Cairo.
THREE SAILINGS A WEEK.
Agents at Alexandria
ALEXANDRIA BONDED WAREHOUSE CO., LTD.

EGYPT’S FRONTIER.
THE PORTE’S CLAIMS.
A TURCO-EGYPTIAN DISPUTE.

A dispute between the Egyptian and Turkish
Governments respecting the frontier separat-
ing Egypt from the Benghazi District is report-
ed by a Constantinople correspondent. Last
year the Turkish Government caused barracks
for a company of infantry to be erected at
the further end of the Gulf of Sollom, from
which the line of demarcation between Egypt
and the district of Benghazi starts. The
barracks, however, were erected at a point
situated a little beyond the Turkish frontier,
and the Khedive's Government therefore pro-
tested against this encroachment by Turkish
troops on Eyptian territory.

To this the Porte only answered that there
could be no question of any encroachment on
a foreign soil on the part of Turkey, “since
the villayet (province) of Egypt formed an
integral part of the Ottoman Empire.”

The sophistry of this argument did not
escape the Egyptian Government. In order
both to force the Turkish garrison in the
barracks to quit Egyptian soil and to restore
to Egypt her rights of territorial sovereignty
not only over the entire district of Sollom but
also over a district of about 250 kilometres to
the west of that point, it is causing an Egyp-
tian military post to be constructed at the
farther end of the Bay of Bomba.

The erection, therefore, of this Egyptian
military post at Bomba will have for result
the acquisition by Egypt of a considerable area.
The frontier between Egypt and the Turkish
district of Benghazi, which began, as the maps
indicate, at Sollon, will now start from the
Bay of Bomba, that is to say, will include
about 250 kilometres more in the direction of
the west.

Recently the Turkish Council of Ministers
discussed this question at great length, and
decided that the Grand Vizier should address a
communication directly to the Egyptian
Government calling on it to give up the project.
The Governor of Benghazi, Hilmy Pasha, has,
on his side, received orders, to oppose by any
means he may consider necessary the erection
by the Egyptians of a military post at Bomba,
supposing the Khedivial Government should
refuse to take into consideration the communi-
cation of the Grand Vizier.

According to Turkish intelligence, an Egyp-
tian despatch boat has been chosen to convey
to Bomba the Egyptian soldiers whose duty it
will be to erect the military post and thus to
isolate from Benghazi the Turkish barracks at
Sollom.

The above statements emanate from Con-
stantinople and we have not obtained con-
firmation of them from any authorised Egyptian
source.

COUNCIL OF MINISTERS.
The following decisions were taken by the
Council of Ministers which met at Abdeen
Palace yesterday under the presidency of H.H.
the Khedive: —

1 To open a credit of L E 40,000 for two
coal quays at Alexandria.

2	Togrant a credit of L.E. 1,000 to the
Khedivial Agricultural Society to enable it to
establish one branch in Dakahlieh and one in
Behers.

3	To appoint Hussein Bey Rushdi as Coun-
sellor to the Native Court of Appeal.

4	Approval of the Budget provisions for
the administrations not in the Budget.

5 Approval of the new regulations of the
Ministry of Public Instruction for the School
of Medicine, Law School, and primary certi-
ficate.

6	Reduction of the charge for the registra-
tion of letters to 5 milliemes and the charge
for postal orders to 3 milliemes and a half per-
L E 1 tor the Interior.

7	Nomination of Sheikh Ahmed Moh, Der-
wish, Ulema of Al Azhar, to the Cadiship of
Al Arish.

NILE-RED SEA RAILWAY.

The Khedivial Mail S.S. Dakahlieh will
convey the visitors to the inauguration of the
Nile-Red Sea Railway to Port Sudan and back.
The foreign diplomatic agents and the Minis-
ters have been invited, with the following nine
members of the Legislative Council : Char-
warbi Pasha, Ismail Pasha Abaza, Hassan
Pasha Abd el Razzak, Toulba Bey, Seoudi
Hassan Bey Madkour, Ibrahim Bey Murad,
Ahmed Bey Yehia, and Tamam Bey Kassab.

SUDAN APPOINTMENTS.
Mr. E. Eonus has been appointed Director
of Agriculture and Lands Department.

El Kaimakam G. S. Nickerson Bey. Junior
Inspector Sennar Province, to be Senior In-
spector Sennar Province.

The undermentioned gentlemen are appoint-
ed surveyors in the Surveys Department.
Mr. W. S. M Vines and Mr. W. R. Field.

Mr. A. de R. Gordon is appointed Vete-
rinary Surgeon, in the Veterinary Department
("Sudan Gazette”).

NILE COLD STORAGE CO.

An extraordinary general meeting of the
Nile Cold Storage Company, Limited, will be
held at the offices, 63 to 74, Palmerston House,
Old Broadstreet, London, on January 4, at
twelve o’clock noon, for the purpose of effect-
ing certain alterations in the articles of associa-
tion. The details appear in our advertising
columns.

A KHEDIVIAL PRINCESS’S DEATH.

ENQUIRY OPENED AT YILDIZ KIOSK.

DJELLALEDDIN PASHA’S PROTEST TO THE SULTAN.

The death of the Khedivial Princess who
was the wife of General Ahmed. Djelaleddin
Pasha and the sister of Prince Omar Pasha
and Prince Djemil Pasha Toussoun, is still
fresh in the minds of all, for the funeral, which
took place at Alexandria, was one of the most
solemn and largely attended inhumations that
have taken place here for years past. Her body
rests in the Mosque of Nebi Daniel.

Since her death her husband, who for more
than ten years was the most powerful and
honorable of the Sultan's advisors, has re-
sided in Egypt and resisted all the blandish-
ments of the Sublime Porte to induce him to
go back to Stamboul. His obstinacy has led, it
is said, to the confiscation of his estates in
Turkey, and now the Sultan has determined to
blacken the character of his erstwhile favorite
by ordering a commission to sit at Yildiz
Kiosque in order to enquire into the circum-
stances attending his wife's death. The Pasha’s
case is fully set out in the telegram which he
despatched to Tahsin Pasha, first secretary to
the Sultan, on the 26th inst. The text of this
despatch is as follows .—

Je viens d'apprendre par les journaux l’en-
quête ouverte au palais de Yildiz au aujet de
la légère opération chirurgicale que la prin-
cesse, ma très regrettée épouse, avait subie,
aprés consultation et décision de quelques som-
mités médicales de la Capitale, un an et demi
avant sa mort et à laquelle assistaient égale-
ment sa mère sa soeur et son beau-père.

Je considère comme un devoir saoré d'aider
de toss mes moyens à toute to démarche qui pour-
rait constituer un hummage à la mémoire de la
regrettée défunte, en facilitant la déconverte de
la vérité en tout ce qui la concerne; Le soupçon,
l'évidence même d'une intention personnelle-
ment désobligeante pour moi, ne-saurait m’em-
pêcher d'accomplir ce devoir sacré. Aussi
est-ce avec empressement que je viens surgérer
les moyens les plus propices à atteindre la but
proposé.

La défunte princesse est inhumée an Egypte
et son cercueil porte tonjours les soellés qui,
conformément au règlement régissant le trans-
fert des corps, ont été apposés par les antorités
po'icières de la ville de Cannes, cu elle a
rendu le dernier soupir. Tous ses parents,
l'illusure famille á laquelle elle appartenait,
sont domiciliés dans ce pays et j'y suis établi
moi-même, principal intéressé. La haute re-
nommés de justice et d’impartialité des tri-
bunaux égyptiens demeurant au-dessus de
toute contestation il serait donc tout-à-fait
naturel de poursuivre ce procès en Egypte, ce
qui assurerait l’exaltation entière de la vérité.

Pourtant, si par une considération queloon-
que le recours aux tribunaux égyptiens était
jugé inopportun on rourrait parfaitement
déférer le cas à la justice française, la prince se
étant morte en France. Au surplus, je suis
prêt à me présenter à la justice de tout pays
civilisé où l'indépendance des tribunaux se
tronve assurée.

Mais la manière par laquelle l’enquête est
inaugurée à Constantinople, la constitution
d’une commission au palais de Yildiz, qui ne
devrait en rien intervenir dans une affaire
judiciaire, la pression exercée sur certains mé-
decins (parmi lesquels d’auouns n’avaient d’ail-
leurs jamais examiné la défunte princesse)pour
leur faire apposer leurs signatures au-dassous
d'un rapport préslablement préparé, les mena-
ces proférées à cette occasion constituent au-
tant de symptômes indiquant que l’enquête
poursuivie à Constantinople marque, dans son
origine même, de cette incérité dans la recher-
che de la vérité qui constitue la condition
essentielle de toute justice régulière.

Aussi, il devieut indispensable dans l’intérêt
même du but pousuivi de trausférer le procès
devant une justice inaccessible à aucune ingé-
rence et dont la procédure normale ne saurait
subir aucune déviation.

Cette proposition ne peut qu’être adoptée,
s’il existe la moindre impartialité dans l’en-
quête inaugurêe. Le triomphe de ceux qui la
poursuiventrerait incontestables’ils parvenaient
à obtenir une condemnation d’un tribunal
jugeant en pleine possession de son indépen-
dance. Le refus, au contraire, de porter l'affaire
devant une justice impartiale, découvrirait de
suite le but caché qui ne peut être autre chose
que de porter une grave atteinte à ma dignité
et à mon honneur. Ce sont là justement les
seuls biens auquels je tiens dans l’exil volon-
taire que je me suis imposé. En présence d’une
pareille entreprise qui sous imposé d'une
procès absurde, équivaut à déclarer une guerre
ouverte contre mon honneur, toute considera-
tion de convenance, tout souvenir d’anciennes
bienveillances cessent d'avoir leur raison d'être.
La responsabilité de cette nouvelle situation
ne peut révenir qu’a ceux qui m’obligent de
me départir de la neutralité que je me suis
imposée vis-à-vis du vrai instigateur de ces
intrignes. J'accepterai le combat et j'attendral
avec confiance les hostilités pour défendre mon
honneur et lui conserver dans le monde
l’estime et la considération dont je suis fier
da le voir entouré. Ce sera une nouvelle
occasion pour manifester la puissance morale
de l’honneur et affirmer son triomphe contre
toute force qui voudrait l'écraser injustement.

An Englishman, who knew the Pasha at
Constantinople, thus describes him:-

Djellaleddin Pasha was for years foremost
and prime favorite among all the Sultan’s
subjects, and fully deserved the trust
reposed in him as an honorable and upright
gentleman. His downfall, therefore, came as a
shock to all who knew him, the greater,
perhaps, for that the report added that
he had been denounced by the Secret Police
of the Palace, a force which he himself created
and organised, and of which, among many
offices, he has always been the working chief.
A remarkable and singularly fascinating per-
sonality, Ahmed Pasha’s most salient quality
was ever an absolutely whole-hearted devotion
to his master and when at last the enemies who
ever dog the footsteps of Royal favorites
succeeded in alienating from him Abdul
Hamid’s confidence and affection, the cir-
cumstance was received aa indicating a further
sinister advance in the progress of that be-
setting "manie de la persécution” which has
for years haunted the gloomy potentate of
Yildiz. During his long term of honored ser-
vice Ahmed Pasha enjoyed an absolutely
unique position in the Yildiz set. Privileges
have been his which no other Turkish function-
ary would have dared to solicit. Of late years, for
instance, social communion between Turks and
Europeans in the capital has been tacitly, and in
some cases openly, prohibited. Yet Ahmed was
a prominent member of the “English" club,
and to which practically all the English colony
belongs in common with the chief members of
other European communities. Almost every
day, indeed, Fridays excepted, during the
many years I knew him, Ahmed Pasha took
his place at the Bridge table—for Bridge was
popular in Constantinople long before it was
heard of in Europe, and it may be said that he
is both a fine player and a good loser. It has
often been suggested that this licensed associa-
tion with Europeans was not wholly foreign to
his functions as chief of the Secret Police. As to
this, however, it may be said that all who have
known the Pasha were penetrated with the
sense of his complete honorability. In proof
of this is the fact that when Abdul Hamid
sought to end his differences with the
chiefs in Paris of the ” Young Turkey ”
party he employed in vain one intermediary
after another until it was intimated to him
that the services of Ahmed Djellaleddin as
envoy would procure the desired result. The
Pasha, therefore, was sent to Paris and on
his representations the ” Young Turkey ”
leaden complied with the Sultan’s invitation
that they should return to Constantinople and
their allegiance. It is noteworthy in this
connection that Ahmed's influence with his
master has sufficed to assure to them the
immunity that he promised. It is within my
knowledge that on several occasions he has
been urged to diverge from this line of con-
duct, and that at the risk of that loss
of favor which has now overtaken him he
invariably refused to put his hand to any
unworthy action. Oddly enough, until now
this inflexibility has served rather than injur-
ed him in his master’s eyes : for the Sultan,
though freely using spies and traitors, has
a wholesome contempt for such gentry. Cover-
ed with honors, only before his fall from
favor recently, indeed, the Sultan bestowed
on him the last and highest decoration in his
gift.

CHANGES AMONG JUDGES.

There are some impending changes afmong
the judges of the Mixed Courts. We hear that
Joseph Bey Cherakian, judge of the Alexandria
Mixed Tribunal, will be appointed counsellor to
the Mixed Court of Appeal. Mohamed Bey Musta-
pha, judge of the Mansourah Mixed Tribunal,
will be transferred to Alexandria in place of
Judge Cherakian. Ragbeb Bey Badr, also a
judge of the Mansourah Tribunal, will be
transferred to Cairo, in place of Hassein Bey
Rouchdi. Abdel Messih Bey Semeika, judge
of the Zagazig Native Tribunal, and Mohamed
Bey Sidky, president of the Keneh Native
Tribunal, will be appointed judges of the
Mixed Tribunal at Mansourah.

CAIRO MIXED COURTS.

The following are the names of the judges’
commercial assessors elected for 1906-7 in the
Mixed Tribunal, Cairo :—
Mendel Giacomo, Italian, to sit in February
Ebano.C.A,	„	„	„	March
Cattaoui Bey, J, Austrian, „ April
Henriques, R Q, British,	„	„	May
Birchee, André, French,	„	„	June
Stross, R, Austrian,	„	„ 	July
Pelizaeus, W., German,	„	August
Zouro, C, Greek,	„	September
Xenakis,C., „	„	„	October
Mosseri, G. Italian, •__ „	„	November
Battemberg, Ch., French,	„	December
Williamson, .J.W-., British,	„	„	January

The following are the names of the “sup-
pléanta” ;—
Ablitt, Walker, British, to	be called	1st
Pitelle, Louis, French,	„ . „	2nd
Dombra, Emile, „	„	„	3rd
Cattaoui Bey, M., Austrian	„	„	4th
Sterzing, Otto, German,	,,	„	6th
Rolo, Robert, British,	6th
Chelmis, Ange, Greek,	„	„	‘	7th
Lonsdorpper, N., German,	„	„	8th
Rostovitz Bey, A., Greek, „ 4	9th
Hasselbach, C., German	„	„	10th
Beer, Alfredo, Italian,	„	„	11th
Padova, Mario, „	„	„	12th

STEAMER MOVEMENTS.
The Moss liner Seti sailed yesterday after-
noon from Malta and is due here on Sunday
evening with passengers, mails and general
cargo.

CRISIS IN NEW YORK.
A SEVERE SLUMP.
UNEASINESS INvMONEY MARKET.

(Gazette's Special Service.)
London. Thursday, Dec. 28.
A severe slump has been caused at New
York owing to day-to-day money being at 90
per cent, and a feeling of considerable unea-
siness prevails on the subject of Friday's
settlement
The ‘World’’ states that notwithstanding
public assertions Lawson is believed to be
gaining by the boom in copper.

RESCUE OF A CREW.

(From our Correspondent).
Port Said, Thursday.
The Dutch steamer Willis arrived at Port
Said at 10.5 p.m. on Tuesday, bound from
Rotterdam, via Marseilles, for Java. The
captain reports that on the 23rd inst. he was
signalled to by the Greek S.S. Annikar, which
was in such a bad state that the S.S Willis
stayed in the vicinity all night and took her
crew on board in the early morning as the
deck of the ship was under water and she was
floating on the cargo.

The S.S. Willis left the wreck in Lat. N.
36' 45 and Long. E. 17’ 56'.

DEATH OF MRS. MOND.
(From our Correspondent).
Luxor, Thursday.
Mrs. R. Mond died at 4 o’clock this morning
after a short illness of only three days’ duration.
The lady and her husband are well-known
annual visitors to Egypt and great sympathy
is expressed here for the widower in his be-
reavement. Mr. Mond belongs to the family
who have made Brunner Mond & Co, one of
the largest manufacturing chemical firms in
the world.

SUPREME CONSULAR COURT.
The trial of Gerasimo Agius before the
Supreme Consular Court at Alexandria was
concluded on the evening of the 27th inst.
The jury found the accused guilty of unlaw-
fully wounding two Greeks, Morselli and
Delyannis, and of having attempted to murder
Pietro Damiano, an Italian. On the latter
count he was condemned to seven years’ penal
servitude. The charges on the other count
were withdrawn by the prosecution.

Judge Cator is leaving for Cairo, probably to
hear a civil case in regard to the administra-
tion of the Debarro estate.

EXPLOSION IN CAIRO.
On Wednesday, three Jews, Saad Farag,
Ibrahim Moussa, and Haim Fossi, were en-
gaged in making fireworks and petards for the
Accession Day fêtes (which take place on
January 8) in a house at Haret el Yahoudi, in
the Mousky quarter of Cairo, when a violent
explosion took place. One of the walls collapsed
and the unfortunate men were overwhelmed
by the debris.

Saad Farag was killed on the spot. Ibrahim
Moussa, after being badly burnt about the
hands and body, was injured by falling debris
and is now in hospital. Fossi escaped with
comparatively slight injuries. The police took
speedy measures to extricate the men and to
remove the debris. A procès-verbal estalished
the fact that the explosion was due to acci-
dental causes.

PROVINCIAL KUTTABS

(From our Correspondent).
Zifta, Thursday.

A meeting was held to-day, in a large tent
near the Zifta Markaz, of the omdehs, mer-
chants, and notables of the town and surround-
ing villages. The Sub-Moudir of Gharbieh,
Abdel Ghani Bey Shakir, the Mamour of Zifta,
Hafez Effendi Amin, and many other notables
were present. The Sub-Moudir opened the
proceedings by a speech explaining the object
of the gathering and urging them to help the
kuttabs and their arifs, as many benefits were
to be derived from them. The inspector of the
kuttabs of Lower Egypt, Sheikh Mohamed
Nassar, then said something as to the advant-
ages of learning and education, their effect upon
civilisation, the uses of the new kuttabs, and
the necessity of spreading knowledge among
Egyptians.

The inspector of the kuttabs of the markaz
also delivered a speech dealing with the new
method of teaching in the kuttabs, and also
recalled the Prophet’s sayings on the subject,
pointing out that these new methods of teaching
were the same as those enjoined by the Koran.
He mentioned that there are now about
sixty kuttabs in the district of Zifta at-
tended by 3,528 scholars, of whom 105 are
girls. He added that there was only one kut-
tab in the whole district in 1902.

Afterwards the grants-in-aid which amount-
ed to about LE 245, were distributed and the
meeting dispersed.

(From our Correspondent).
Santa, Wednesday.

The distribution of the grants in-aid to the
fikis and arifs of the kuttabs in this district
took place at 11 a.m. to-day in a hall before
the markaz, under the presidency of the Wakil
el moudirieh of Gharbieh and two Public In-
struction inspectors. The Wakil-el Moudirieh
and both inspectors delivered addresses to the
omdeh and notables on the subject of building
kuttabs in the surrounding villages and thank-
ed them for their generosity. Then the grants-
in-aid were distributed to the fikis.

PERSONAL AND SOCIAL.

Lord Cromer, who is now convalescent, went
out for a drive yesterday, and will drive out
again today.

The Dowager Countess of Donoughmore and
Lady Nora Hutchinson have left for Assouan,
after a prolonged stay at the Hotel d’Angle-
terre.

Lord and Lady Trevor have taken passage
by the Orient liner Ophir, and will stay in
Cairo at the Hotel d’Angleterre for a few days
before going on their trip up the Nile.

Sir C. Thomas and Lady Acland are expect-
ed at Cairo in the middle of January, and have
retained a suite of apartments at the Hotel
d’Angleterre.

Admiral Fanshawe and his secretary are
staying at Ghezireh Palace Hotel.

Mr. George Pauling, the well known S.
African, is also staying at the Ghezireh
Palace Hotel.

Mr. A. L. Webb, C.M.G., returns to Cairo
tonight alter an inspecting tour in Upper
Egypt.

Major Wolfgang Freiherr and Freifran
Trensch von Buttlar-Brendenfels have returned
to Cairo after a trip on the Nile and a visit
to Assouan.

Mrs. Thornton and Mrs. Gairdner gave an
“at home” on Wednesday afternoon at Beit
Arabi Pasha, Cairo. which was largely attended.
The music and 'Xmas carols were highly
appreciated. Both Mr. and Mrs. Gairdner are
musical. Mrs. Gairdner is an accomplished
violinist.

Among the latest arrivals at the Eastern
Exchange Hotel, Port Said, are Mr. F. W.
Lucke, Mr. A. H Loss, Mr. R. F. R. Cooke,
Mr. and Mrs. P. Wood, Miss Wood, Mr. Wood,
Mr. T. Wood, Mr. M. Wood, Mr. R. Wood,
General and Mrs. Lance, Miss Billen, Mr. R
H. du Boulay, Mr. and Mrs. H. Maës, Mr. F.
Muriel-Wright, Comte de Failly, Mr. de St.
Legier, Mr. and Mrs. B Hardme, Mr. Etche-
goyeu, Mr. and Mrs. H. S. Cowper, Mr. E. P.
Williams, Mr. and Mrs. Wildhagen, Miss M.
Davie, Miss A. Davis, Mr. L. Stienon, Mr. G.
Giammugnai.

GHEZIREH PALACE DANCE.
Last night's dance at Ghezireh Palace Hotel
was a most brilliant and enjoyable function.
Over a hundred visitors and many residents,
in addition to those staying at the hotel,
were present, and many dinners were ordered.
Among those dining were Col. Gordon, who
entertained a large party, including General
and Mrs. Bullock ; Lady Lampson, who pre-
sided at a table of eight covers ; Major and
Mrs. Hesse ; Mr. Curthy, who was entertain-
ing a party of friends, including the Hon. F. G.
Morgan, Mr. Rom, and others ; Sir Hugh
Smiley, with a party of six ; Major Wilson,
Mr. and Mrs. Fisher, and many others.

Dancing started shortly after 10 o’clock, to
the strains of the Tzigane Band, which played
excellently. The floor was in good condition
and dancing lasted till early this morning,
when the last guests returned to town by
motor.

EGYPTIAN NITRATE AND
PHOSPHATE SYNDICATE, LIMITED.

This winding-up petition came before Mr.
Justice Buckley on the 19th December. The
petitioner, Mr. Henry John Monson, claimed
to be a creditor for £1,750 and a shareholder.
His claims, however, were contested by the
company, and the petition was adjourned for
the question to be fought out regarding the
petitioner's position in another court.

ZIZINIA THEATRE.
We have received the following for insertion:

L' Administration du Théâtre Zizinia informs
Messieurs les Abonnés de la Série. A que le
représentation du Mardi 9 Janvier 1906 set
remise au retour du Cairo de la Compagnie
d'Opéra.

La date sera, fixée plus tardet communiquée
par un avis spécial.

L'Administration prévient Messieurs les
Abonnés de la Série B que le Vendredi 29 Dé-
cembre il y aura Relâche et que la representa-
tion, pae ce fait, leur sera dûe et remise au
Mardi 9 Janvier 1906.

La direction a pris ces décisions afin de
pouvoir, sauf cas de force majeure, attributer
les mêmes spectacles à chaque Série et changer
d'Opêra à chaque représentation.

BAND PERFORMANCE.
By kind permission of Lieut. Colonel E.C.C
Cox, commanding, and officers 2nd Battalion
Royal Inniskilling Fusiliers, the Band will per-
form the following selection of music on the
Terrace, Shepheard's Hotel on Saturday after-
noon from 4 to 6.
March-Stars and Stripes for ever-Sousa
Overture-The Merry Monarch-Herold
Pas de Deux-Beauty of thE Dance-Fusby
Selection-The Belle of New York-Kerker
Valse-Soldsten Disder Gung'l
Song-Asthore Trotere
American Sketch-Down South-Myddleton
Dance de Czechs Kottane
Regimental March- Khedivial Anthem
God Save the King
R. Watsch Ramsey, Bandmaster
