THE EGYPTIAN GAZETTE, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 28, 1905.

LOCAL AND GENERAL.

Khartoum-Kassala Road.
The Sudan Government is constructing a
route from Khartoum to Kassala.

A Foundling.
A newly born child was found by the police
near Mustapha Pasha yesterday and removed
to	hospital.

National Bank of Egypt.
M. Armando Mustaki has been appointed
manager of the sub-agency of the National
Bank of Egypt in the Midan quarter of Alex-
andria.

Burned to Death.
A native girl of 6, diving in the Custom
house quarter, was burned to death yesterday
through her clothes catching fire from a
candle which she was holding in her hand.

Fire in Cairo.
A fire brook out in a home above Messrs.
Walker and Meimarachi’s establishment in
the Esbekish quarter of Cairo yesterday, but
was rapidly extinguished by the Fire Brigade.

Mena House Case.
The claim to pre-emption brought by Dr.
Rifky and the Princess, his wife, against Mr.
Nungovich in regard to the purchase of Mena
House Hotel came before the Cairo Mixed
Court on Tuesday.

Railway Fatality.
To save a third-class fire from Cairo to Suez,
a	native got on the roof of a carriage of the
train which left Bab-el-Hadid station at 7 a.m.
on Saturday. At Benha his head came into
collision with the bridge and he was killed on
the spot.

International Chamber of Commerce.
The International Chamber of Commerce at
Cairo met last night to elect a president in
place of M. Leroux, resigned. Mr. Scott-
Dalgleish, vice-president, was elected president
by 12 votes out of 18 present, and Mr. Dessalles
D’Epinoix was elected vice-president.

Quadrille Dance Party.
A quadrille dance party will be given by
the warrant officers, staff sergeants, and
sergeants of the 1st Royal Dublin Fusiliers in
the Mess-room, Mustapha, on Monday, 1st
January, dancing to commence at 8 p.m.
Invitation tickets most be presented at the
door.

A Good Scheme.
The Government proposes to supplement
each year the Cassel charity by the establish-
ment of one or more permanent ophthalmic
hospitals, until every moudirieh shall have its
own hospital. One will be built next year for
a sum of L.E. 4,000. The annual charge will
be about L.E. 5,000.

Union Artistique Francaise.
The above society will give a dramatic per-
formance in their hall in Stamboul-street this
evening, commencing at 9. The programme
consists of three parts, i.e., La Femme
a conference in one act, Monsieur Badin, a
one-act comedy by Courteline, and Les Boulin
grins, also a one-act comedy by Courteline.

New British Club.
Donations of £5 each in aid of the founding
of the new British Club at Alexandria have
been received from the London and Lancashire
Life Assurance Co. and the General Fire and
Accident Assurance Corporation. It is to be
hoped that the other insurance companies will
follow this excellent example.

Appointment for Dr. Sandwith.
Dr. Sandwith has been appointed Lecturer
on Tropical Diseases in St. Thomas’s Medical
School. Dr. Sandwith’s wide experience of the
subject should be a sufficient guarantee, if it
were necesary, for the distinct advantage
which St. Thomas’s students in the future
will derive by the addition to their teaching
staff of so eminent an authority as Dr. Sand-
with. Every London Medical School in the
near future will be compelled to have a
Lecturer on Tropical Diseases, and this is not
surprising when we come to consider that
each hospital sends a large number of its old
students into the Services, and to practise
abroad. It is, therefore, essential for these
men to have at least some idea of the nature
of the diseases which are commonly met with
in the Tropics.

CHURCH SERVICES FOR JANUARY.

Mansourah.

Jan. 1st Circumcision (Chaplain goes to
Assiout for Service next day).

" 6th Eve of Epiphany. Evensong at Man-
sourah at 5.30 p.m.

" 7th — 1st Sunday after Epiphany.
Litany and H. C. at 11 a.m.

" 14th — 2nd Sunday after Epiphany.
Evensong at 6.30 p.m.

" 21st — 3rd Sunday after Epiphany.
Matins at 11 a.m.

" 28th — 4th Sunday after Epiphany.
Evensong 6.30 p.m.

Tantah.

Jan. 7th — 1st Sunday after Epiphany.
Evensong at 6.30 p.m.

" 14th — 2nd Sunday after Epiphany.
Holy Communion at 8 am.
Litany and H. C. at 11 a.m.

" 21st — 3rd Sunday after Epiphany.
Evensong at 6.30 p.m.
" 28th — 4th Sunday after Epiphany.
Holy Communion at 8 am.
Matins at 11 am.
T.D.C. Firminger, Chaplain.

FINANCIAL ADVISER'S NOTE.
SOME EXTRACTS.
PUBLIC BUILDINGS EXPENDITURE.

In his Note on the 1905 Budget, the Financial
Adviser says :—
Roughly speaking, it may be said that Egypt
is actually spending from L.E. 300,000 to
L.E. 400,000 annually on public buildings ;
not, I think, an extravagant sum, having re-
gard to the revenue of the country and the
fact that everything has to be provided ab
initio, hospitals, post offices, prisons, asylums,
schools, police stations, to say nothing of Gou-
vernorats, and other Government buildings of
practically every description.

Of course in the above figures are not in-
cluded great works of public utility of a
remunerative nature, which are charged to
Reserve Fund.

THE ENGLISH G. P. O.

As to penny postage between Egypt and
the United Kingdom, the Financial Adviser
says :—"For years past the Egyptian Go-
vernment has been urging the adoption of
this reform, but had hitherto failed to shake
the non possumus attitude of the British
portal authorities.”

THE COST OF THE ARMY.

In remarking on the increase in the budget
of the Ministry of War Sir Vincent Corbett
says:—

L.E 50,000 represents a portion of Army
expenditure hitherto refunded by the Sudanese
Government and which will for the future be
borne by Egypt. Seeing that the Egyptian
Army in the Sudan is employed to all intents
and purposes in guarding the Egyptian frontier
and that its movements are dictated by Egyp-
tian interests, it seemed unfair any longer to
burden the nascent revenue of the Sudan with
so heavy a charge. The sum thus set free
will be employed in the interior development
of the country, thus hastening the day, not, I
am confident, very far distant, when the re-
venue of the Sudan will not only suffice for its
wants, but enable it to make a return on the
considerable sums invested by Egypt in that
country.

THE CAISSE CRITICISED.

He criticises The Caisse de la Dette for
having only reduced its expenses by L. E.
2,500 in the following strong terms:—

It is regrettable that the last named institu-
tion should not have seen its way to effecting
still larger economies, as its work is now
practically limited to the "payment of the
coupon out of sums automatically paid into
its coffers by the State.

MUNICIPAL COMMISSIONS.

Sir Vincent makes the following remarks on
the provincial commissions : —
The local Municipal Commissions, which
constituted a sort of middle term between
governmental and municipal control of local
business, are working farly well, but owing to
the regime of the Capitulations, which hampers
local reform at every turn, they are unable
to develop as satisfactorily as could be wished.
The privileges of foreigners render local taxa-
tion to any reasonable extent an impossibility,
with the result that there is an ever-increasing
demand under this head for aid from the funds
of the central Government.

EGYPT AND GERMANY.

THE POSTAL TARIFF.
The "Kölnische Zeitung" publishes a com-
munication which, although dated from Cairo,
probably emanates from Berlin, regarding a
readjustment of the postal tariff between Ger-
many and Egypt. According to this communi-
cation, the Egyptian Government has entered
into communication with other countries for
the purpose of bringing about a reduction of
its postal tariff, similar to that recently arrang-
ed with England in order to show that Egypt
has not become a British colony. The German
Government is now considering the matter.
Probably penny postage will be introduced
between Germany and Egypt.

DERELICT NEAR PORT SAID.

The following telegram has been received at
H. B. M.’s Consulate, Alexandria, from H.B.M.’s
Consulate at Port-Said :—

Dutch steamer Wilio reports saving crew
of derelict Greek steamer Annika submerged
to water level 36 45 North 17 56 East, 24th
December.

THE SEASON AT LUXOR.
Christmas was gaily celebrated at Luxor.
At the Savoy Hotel a Christmas tree and an
excellent dinner was provided for the guests,
and a very enjoyable evening was spent by
all the visitors.
This hotel has been well patronised up till
now and many orders for rooms have been
received for January. The great improvements
which have been effected at the Savoy under
its new management make it a most home
like hostelry in every respect, where visitors
find every requirement for a delightful stay
and well-organised excursions.

CARLTON HOTEL.
BULKELY (near Alexandria.)
RAMLEH’S FASHIONABLE HOTEL
PATRONISED BY THE ELITE.

THE GORDON COLLEGE.
ANNUAL REPORT.
THE PAST YEAR EVENTFUL.

Mr. James Currie, Director of Education in
the Sudan, and Principal of the Gordon
Memorial College at Khartoum, reporting on
the work of the institution for 1904, makes
mention of the great loss the collnge has
sustained by the death of Mr. Alfred Spalding
Harvey, the hon. secretary, and of his own
indebtedness to Mr. Harvey’s sagacity  and
wide knowledge of men and things. The past
year, he says, has been rather an eventful one,
and several important decisions have been
taken, though these perhaps may be said to
represent the development of exiting agencies
and do not constitute fresh departures. The
college, apart from the laboratories, as has
been explained in previous reports, has so far
been divided into three sections: a Primary
School, a Training College for Schoolmasters
and Judges in the Mohamedan Courts, and the
instructional workshops. The Primary School,
attended by about 180 boys, has now assumed
a final form. The curriculum, in the event of a
a boy being unable to carry his education
further, extends over four years, and is calculat-
ed to fit him to fill some minor Government
post, such as junior telegraphist, petty clerk,
or land measurer. Apart from the normal
increase of numbers the only point worthy of
special notice is the prosperity of the boarding-
house. This is now quite fall, some 25 boys be-
ing in residence, of whom all but two are genuine
inhabitants of the Sudan and many of them
members of very well-known and influential
families. The Military School, intended for
Sudanese cadets, prospective officers in the
black battalions, is now open and appears to
have made a good beginning. It has been
liberally treated in the natter of staff. The
Training College has also prospered, and the
progress reported in last year’s report has been
well sustained. By the end of 1906 it will be
possible to judge whether or not the ex-
periment is going to be successful and whe-
ther these young sheikhs have during their
period of training acquired sufficient know-
lege of Mohamedan law to administer it
efficiently, and sufficient general culture to
conduct that administration in accordance with
the principles that must obtain in all countries
where British influence is paramount. Every-
thing possible is being done by the staff of
lecturers to make the experiment a success,
and one can only patiently watch results.
The object of the workshops is to provide
practical instruction in carpentering, fitting,
smith’s work, moulder’s work, cotton ginning,
and a primary stage of mechanical engineering,
which includes the management and repair of
oil and steam engines with electricity and
water pressure as adjuncts, pumping machinery,
and turning. Ultimately only boys who have
passed through the Elementary Vernacular
Schools will be admitted, but at present the
supply of these is too small to fill the work-
shops, and many boys have been allowed to
enter whose general education does not come
up to the standard required. In addition to
their practical work all the boys spend six
hours a week continuing their previous educa-
tion. It is Mr. Currie’s opinion that consequent
on the general policy of the Sudan and Egyp-
tian Governments the economic development
of the Sudan is likely to be more rapid than
anyone four years ago could have considered
possible.

Sir Reginald Wingate, in forwarding lht|
report to the Earl of Cromer, says that a very
important step has been taken in initiating
a system of secondary education and	starting a
small engineering school for the training of over-
seers of works and land surveyors. The college is
fortunate in having the services of a very
competent instructor in Mr. Rhodes. The in-
vestigation work performed in the "Wellcome”
Laboratories under the able direction of Dr.
Andrew Balfour during the past year has been of
increasing value and interest, more especially
in regard to the causes of sleeping sickness,
both in human beings and in animals. In
this connection the recent journey of Dr.
Sheffield Neave on the Upper Nile and in the
Bahr el Ghazal should furnish further valuable
information. The chemical analyses by Dr.
Beam of the waters of the various rivers in
the Sudan are also of considerable interest
and importance.

THE KHEDIVE.
H.H. the Khedive gave audience today to
T.H. Prince Ibrahim Halim and Prince
Mohamed Aly Halim, Count Antoine Zogheb,
Mohamad Pasha Izzet, and Hussein Wassif
Pasha.

His Highness will attend the Abou el Ela
Mosque at Boulac for prayer to-morrow
morning.

LOCAL COMMISSIONS.

The following credits have been granted to
the undermentioned Local Commissions, which
are to be created in 1906 :-

Tahta, L.E. 1,400 ; Mallawi, LE 1,500;
Manfalout LE 1,400 ; Rosetta, LE 1,200;
Samanoud, L.E 1,800, and Dessouk, L.E. 1,400

The following credits have been added in
the 1906 budget for the undermentioned local
commissions:-

Assiout, L.E 500 ; Medinet-el-Fayoum, L.E.
500 ; Damanhour, L.E. 500 ; Suez, L. E. 500 ;
Beni Souef, L.E. 3OO; Kafr-el-Zayat, LE 200 ;
Luxor, LE 300 ; Assouan, LE 500; Ghizeb,
LE 200 ; and Ghirgeh, LE 300.

“ALI BABA" AT SUEZ.

AMATEUR PANTOMIME.

A SEASONABLE PERFORMANCE.

It was a happy idea that led the members of
the E. T. C. Mess at Suez to give so season-
able and enjoyable an entertainment as a
pantomime on Boxing Day. The subject chosen
was Ali Baba, described as a pantomime pot
pourri in 2 acts; but far from being the old
story, it devolved itself into a topical and
distinctly humorous legend from the pen of
Mr. O. D. Harris. Music was introduced
throughout, and the parodies on well-known
songs were much appreciated.

The story, which deserves mention if only
for its originality, is briefly this: Ali Baba, the
captain of the 40 thieves, comes down from the
Attaca mountains, where he lives, in order to
smuggle some hashish from a ship due that
day. Unfortunately, on his way from the hills,
his motor breaks down and he is forced to put
up at the Suez Gulf Club, where he is made
much of in the guise of a stranger, and getting
into conversation with Aladdin, the coastguard
chief, Ali Baba learns the password "Open
Sesame," which will enable him to pass the
sentinels along the docks road on his return
from the 14th of July celebrations at Port
Tewfik, the occasion he has chosen for smuggling
the booty. The second act discovers Ali Baba
at the dance, but in a sore plight, for he has
forgotten the password, but he manages after
much difficulty in his conversation with a
French lady to induce her to take a small parcel
he resourcefully names chocolates. Just aa Ali
is kissing his hand in tender farewell to his
innocent accomplice, his wife Morgiana turns
up and charges her husband with infidelity.
Ali’s explanations fail to convince the injured
Morgiana, who straightway goes to the autho-
rities for a divorce, when Ali’s calling as a
desperado is soon revealed. Circumstantial
evidence, however, foils to convict Ali Baba,
and his fair accomplice has passed through the
canal on her errand in a special tug. Pursuit
is apparently useless, for we learn in the con-
cluding lines that the famous waterway is closed
owing to the explosion of the Chatham, and we
hope for the sake of the story that the State
railways did not exist in the days of Ali Baba
and his forty thieves.

As regards the individual artists, Mr. Dug-
more, as Cinderella, repeated his former suc-
cesses in the role of the "giddy young thing"
of the fairer sex, whose game of bumple-puppy
in the first act can only be described as "great."
The lengthy role of Aladdin was made much
of by Mr. G. A. Evans, who fully entered into
the humorous side of the arduous duties of a
conscientious coastguard official. Mr. Menzies,
described on the programme as the wife of the
deceased Blue Beard, was quite a fascinating
if youthful creature, but we do not wish to
enquire at what age this charming damsel
became allied to her faithless husband. As
Jack the Giant Killer, Mr. F. W. Hamilton
showed much cleverness in dealing with the
awkward situations brought about by his
zealous compatriot, Aladdin. Mr. Counsell, as
Morgiana, and Mr. Mansell, as Friday, under-
took minor parts, but far from casting any
reflection on their capabilities let it be said
that they were quite up to the standard
of Mr. Harris’s supporters. There only remains
Mr. O.D. Harris in the title role. We cannot
say too much of his rendering of Ali Baba
and his two songs. " The captain of the 40
thieves " and the " Local Limericks " intro-
duced in the second act, created roars of
laughter. We think it a pity that Mr.
Harris does not find wider scope for his
energies.

The piece was well mounted and the effec-
tive scenery was due to the clever brush of
Mr. G. A. Evans. The costumes, especially
those of the female characters, lacked nothing
in style, and Mme Gasser is to be congra-
tulated on her work. Other dresses and wigs
were by W. Waller of London.

THE COLD WEATHER.
The weather at Suez is exceptionally cold
this year. A few days ago snow was visible
on the highest peaks of the Attaka mountains,
about 20 miles south of Suez. This was re-
ported by several homeward bound steamers,
and the phenomenon was visible with a teles-
cope from Suez.

BAND PERFORMANCE.
By kind permission of Lieut-Col. R. C. C.
Cox, commanding, and officers 2nd Battn.
Royal Inniskilling Fusiliers, the Band will
perform the following programme of music on
the terrace, National Hotel, to-morrow (Friday)
afternoon from 4 to 6:-
March-Cleopatra Castle Ord Hume
Overture-Ivan-Conterno
Serenade-La Manola-Kilenberg
Song-Killarney-Balfs
Selection-All the Girls-Williams
Polka-Post Horn-Moore
Regimental March - Khedivial ANthem.
God Save the King.
R. WATSON RAMSEY, Bandmaster.

NEW KHEDIVIAL HOTEL
Cairo.

Beck & Co’s Pilsener Beer.
BREMEN.
Obtainable from every Respectable Firm.

NOTES FROM HELOUAN.
SCARCITY OF HOUSES.
THE RACES. - FISH AND MUSIC.

(From our correspondent).

Helouan, Wednesday.
The prospects for the races are bright, and
the arrangements are practically complete
already. The course, which is very wide in
extent, is in fine condition, and extensive im-
provements have been carried out in the
enclosure behind the hotel for the comfort of
spectators and the convenience of all concerned
in the races. The grand stands afford a splen-
did view of the whole course, while the issue of
each contest will be apparent to all without
the slightest difficulty. I also understand that
special train arrangements have been made
for the day by the railway company.

SCARCITY OF HOUSES.

In spite of the fact that up to the present
the season has not been up to the average, it
is reported that visitors desirous of renting
houses in Helouan are in several cases unable
to find the necessary accommodation. Some
residents prophesy that in future visitors to
Helouan will be confined to those requiring
the benefits of the sulphur baths, while others
will go on to Luxor and Assouan. Whether
that will be the case or not in the future,
at present there is a demand for houses which
the provision is not able to supply. New
houses are being built in several parts of the
town and others are being enlarged, so that
soon there ought to be a supply equal to the
demand. During the present week, American
and other visitors have begun to arrive, and
rooms have been engaged in advance by many
who have already gone to Assouan.

“MA FISH."

Helouan offers opportunities for an enter-
prising fishmonger able and willing reasonably
to supply demands daily. We are not altoge-
ther left without fish, of course, and the prin-
cipal establishments can always obtain supplies
from Cairo, but those who buy locally have
sometimes to content themselves with very
coarse fish or to go without any at all. Some
of the gentlemen who tell fish stories in the
hotels might turn the tables on those in-
credulous persons who smile at them, by
turning their attention to this matter now
and then. People could not then say "ma
fish," for the fish would be there!

CONCERNING TONES.

The band which plays selections of music
in Helouan on Sundays undoubtedly breaks
the monotony of life here, but until one
becomes habituated to music so plentiful in
what was formerly called discord, one some-
how cannot help preferring the monotone to
many tones.

'XMAS AT THE TEWFIK.

'Xmas was celebrated at the Tewfik Palace
Hotel in the good old English fashion. The
larger hall was decorated with flags and ever-
greens and a motto, "Merry 'Xmas to All."
An excellent dinner was served at 7.30, after
which there was a Cindalerla dance, one or
two veterans being well to the front. An
Italian string band "played during and after
dinner. Among the many guests we noticed
that Dr. and Mrs. Bentley entertained a large
party, Miss Smail a party of 4, Mr. Wyllie a
party of 4, and Mr. Grant also entertained a
few friends.

'XMAS AT MENA.

’Xmas Day brought quite a crowd of Cairo
people to Mena House Hotel for luncheon and
tea, but the ’Xmas dinner was the crowning
point of the day. The well-known dining-hall
was tastefully decorated with evergreens,
and almost gave one the impression of being
in a palm garden. Little coloured lamps were
studded all over the large and small galleries,
and happy parties one after another entered
the fairy scene with the sound of soft music
greeting them. We will not dwell on the
details of the excellent dinner that was served,
but we must, at least, mention the fact that
when the electric light was switched off and
the ice brought in illuminated, the visitors
and guests staying at the hotel, with one
accord, broke into hearty applause. After the
dessert the choir of the hotel staff gave '"Teure
Heimat" by special request of the visitors,
and, if anything, did better than on 'Xmas Eve.

Mr. Sheldon Amos had a party of 10 for
dinner, Mr. Royle a party of 6, Mr. John Ross
one of 7, and Dr. Wakeling, the popular resi-
dent physician of Mena House, a party of 24,
besides many others.

On Boxing Day the small dance at Mena
House was well attended, which was surpris-
ing, considering that many similar functions
took place that night. We noticed among
the visitors Lieut.-Col. and Mrs. Ludlow,
Major And Mrs. Delavoy, Miss Curry, Mrs.
John Diamaut, Mr. and Mrs. John Ross,
Miss Berry, Miss Leigh, Mr. and Mrs. C. W.
Johnstone, Miss Wetherhill, Mr. Larchester
and his party, Miss Mulholland, Miss Tunley,
Miss Thomson, Mrs. Miles and the Misses
Miles, Miss Duncan, Miss Darby, Mr. Alain
C. White and party, Mr. Ward Boys, Mrs.
Stephens, Mr. P. M. Stout, Mr. C. Ratamau,
Mr. E. A. Bowen, Mr. Livingston, Baron M.
Ramel, and many others.

STEAMER MOVEMENTS.
The M.M. steamer Congo arrived at Mar-
sailles from Alexandria yesterday morning.

PERSONAL AND SOCIAL.

Lord Cromer has become a Vice-President
of the Society for the Preservation of the
Wild Fauna of the Empire.

Sir Elwin Palmer’s condition, we are glad to
learn, shows a decided improvement.

Lady Colvin leaves Marseilles for Egypt to-
morrow.

The many friends of that popular officer,
late of the Egyptian Army, the Hon. Alex-
ander Hore-Ruthven, V.C. will be interested to
learn that the only appointment that the new
Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, Lord Aberdeen,
has yet made to his personal staff is that of
Mr. Ruthven. It may be remembered that it was
only in September last that Mr. Ruthven
obtained the billet of military secretary to
Lord Dudley, and now his successor has taken
him on again. This appointment is very
popular and everyone in Dublin is glad. Mr.
Ruthven is the second son of the 8th Baron
Ruthven and commanded the Camel Corps
Detachment at the battle of Gedaref.

The insignia of the Legion of Honor were
handed to H. E. the Governor of Alexandria
to-day by a delegate of the French Consulate.

Mr. Mitchell Innes has returned from his
trip, in which he was accompanied by Mr.
Wells, to the mining areas on the Red Sea.

The following ware the passengers for Upper
Egypt by the train de luxe yesterday: Mr.
Thompson, Mr. Cartmell, Mr.Lucern, Mr. Pantin
and party, Mr. J. Sevingsten, Mr. Carey, Mr.
Von Bibes, Mr. Schwambern, Messrs. Wirt and
Voigh. Lord Talbot de Malahide and a party of
two. Dr. Hasting, Mr.Denny, Mr. Briantchausnew,
Mr. Menton, Mr. Jean de Vilmerin, Mr. and
Mme Euglebert, Mrs. Bayley, Mr. and Mrs and
Miss Appleton, Major Johnstone, Mr. and Mrs
Foaden, Mr. and Mme. Vegner, Countess of
Donoughmore and Lady Hutchinson, Mr.
Gardener and family, Mr. Ottman, Mr. Helmeu,
Mr. and Mrs. Weaver, Mr. and Mrs. Zoltan,
Mr. Crowley and family, Mr. and Mrs. Blain,
Mr. and Mrs. Coles, Mr. Mumm, Mr. De
Schimellessing, Mr. and Mme Alexandrini, Mrs.
and Miss Hunt, Miss Dawson, Miss Larsen, Mr.
Stienon.

MM. P. and J. de Vilmorin, Mme. P. de
Vilmorin the Marquise de Champagné, Comte
de St. Exupéry, and MM. R and P. le Cerf
and de Cortan leave Khartoum on the 5th
prox. by two special steamers for a two months'
sporting trip to the Abyssinian frontier up
the Blue Nile.

Mr. Duncan W. Morris, of Messrs. Whitehead,
Morris and Co., the well-known London
stationary and printing firm, arrived at Port
Said this morning by the Orient liner Ortena.
He proceeded to Cairo, and will remain in
Egypt for a visit of some length, in order to
look after the branches his firm has established
in Alexandria and Cairo.

We deeply regret to report the death of
Sister Marie, of the French Hospital,cCairo,
who died on Sunday last of consumption, con-
tracted in the execution of her duties as nurse.
During 22 years of devoted work she had won
the admiration and love of all who knew har,
and her death was in keeping with a life
of duty.

Mr. Grant, of Messrs. Grant, Bondi and
Chinn, has left the Hutchinson Nursing Home,
Cairo, after a severe attack of pleurisy, for
Helouan, and will complete his cure by going
to Assouan, or still further south in March in
search of warmth.

Among the latest arrivals at the Savoy
Hotel, Port Saïd, we notice Canon Holland, of
Canterbury, Major L'Estrange Johnstone,
Emin Bey, Turkish Consul General at Bombay,
Lient. Col. Broadmead, Mrs. Tyser, Mrs.
Bovill, Miss Knox, M. S. Métral. Mrs. H.
Scholey and family, Mr. and Mrs. Dyer, Mr.
Edmond Robertson, M.P. Mr. Maclellan, Mr. T.
Chesman, Mr. and Mrs. Ballardie and party,
Miss Schneider, Mrs. Dan Pidgeon, Mr.
Russell and party, Mr. Foote, M. Lenz, Mr.
F. L. Merritt, Mrs. Emmons.

SPORT AND PLAY.

FOOTBALL.

The meeting of the Railway Institute and D
Co. K. R. R. Corps, at Boulac, was witnessed
by a good number of spectators. The visitors
were the first to score, but a few minutes later
the home team equalised. When well into the
first half, Smith scored the home team’s second
goal after a brilliant piece of individual
play. Up to the interval play was very fast
and the game was fairly open. The second
half was a trifle tame, for both sets or for-
wards lacked combination, and the and came
without any further scoring. The home de-
fence had plenty of work to do in the last
part of the game, especially the custodian,
Mr. R. Appleby, who was in fine form between
the posts.
---------------------
WINDSOR HOTEL Restaurant.
DELIGHTFUL SITUATION.
